content/docs/content-creation/placeholders.md, before:

---
title: Placeholders
slug: content-creation/placeholders
description: null
date: 2022-03-14T08:42:21.626Z
lastmod: 2024-01-31T16:17:03.272Z
weight: 200.4
---

# Placeholders

Placeholders can be used in content type fields or templates. The placeholders allow you to
automatically fill in values when creating a new content.

## Default placeholders

| Placeholder  | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `{{title}}`  | Title of the page                                                                                |
| `{{slug}}`   | Slug of the page                                                                                 |
| `{{now}}`    | Current date formatted with the value defined in `frontMatter.taxonomy.dateFormat` or ISO string |
| `{{year}}`   | Current year                                                                                     |
| `{{month}}`  | Current month                                                                                    |
| `{{day}}`    | Current day                                                                                      |
| `{{hour12}}` | Current hour in 12-hour format                                                                   |
| `{{hour24}}` | Current hour in 24-hour format                                                                   |
| `{{ampm}}`   | Show AM/PM                                                                                       |
| `{{minute}}` | Current minute                                                                                   |

## Special placeholders

| Placeholder             | Description                                                | Works for                                             |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `{{fm.<field name>}}`   | The value of the field in the front matter                 | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |
| `{{pathToken.<index>}}` | The value of the path token at the index                   | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |
| `{{pathToken.relPath}}` | The relative value path staring from the page folder' path | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |

### Example 1

Example of how you can use the special placeholders:

```json {{ "title": "Using the special placeholders", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "post",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "/{{fm.type}}/{{pathToken.3}}/{{pathToken.4}}",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content/{{year}}/{{month}}",
    "contentTypes": ["post"]
  }
]
```

The preview path will generate the following path: `/post/2023/02/<slug>`.

### Example 2

```json {{ "title": "Using the relative path token", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "post",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "/{{pathToken.relPath}}/",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content"
  }
]
```

If a file would exist in: `./content/docs/settings.md`. The preview path will generate the following
path: `/docs/settings/`.

### Example 3: using field formatting

In case of using the `{{fm.<field name>}}` placeholder, you can also use field formatting. Here is
an example of how you can use field formatting:

```json {{ "title": "Using field formatting", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "blog",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "'/{{fm.type}}/{{fm.pubDate|format:dd/MM/yy}}/'",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content"
  }
]
```

The above configuration results in the following path: `/blog/25/02/23/`.

![Placeholder field formatting](/releases/v9.0.0/placeholder-formatting.png)

## Custom placeholders

You can define you own placeholders within the `frontMatter.content.placeholders` setting. There are
two types of placeholders you can create:

- `static`: A static placeholder that will be replaced with a static value (you can use another
  placeholder in the value)
- `dynamic`: A dynamic placeholder that will use a script to generate the value

### Static placeholders

Here is an example of a static `permalink` placeholder:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "permalink",
    "value": "/blog/{{slug}}.html"
  }
]
```

> **Info**: The static placeholder's value is adding some text and it will also include the slug of
> the page. There is no extra logic that is executed to generate the value.

To use the `permalink` placeholder, you need to define the `{{permalink}}` value in your content
type or template.

```json
{
  "title": "Permalink",
  "name": "permalink",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{permalink}}"
}
```

### Dynamic placeholders

Dynamic placeholders allow you to use custom scripts to generate the value. The difference with the
static placeholder is that instead of specifying a value, you need to specify a `script` and
`command` property.

#### Placeholder definition

Here is an example of a dynamic `uniqueId` placeholder:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "uniqueId",
    "script": "./scripts/uniqueId.mjs",
    "command": "~/.nvm/versions/node/v18.17.1/bin/node"
  }
]
```

#### Placeholder script

To get started, you first need to install the
[@frontmatter/extensibility](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@frontmatter/extensibility) 
dependency.

```bash
npm i @frontmatter/extensibility
```

Once installed, you can use the following example:

```javascript
import { PlaceholderScript } from "@frontmatter/extensibility";

const { workspacePath, filePath, title, answers } = PlaceholderScript.getArguments();

PlaceholderScript.done(Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 15));
```

> **Info**: Like the other content scripts, you can use other types of scripts like Python, Bash,
> and more.

The base script for a dynamic placeholder similar to the [content script][01]. The difference is
that instead of retrieving the whole front matter object, you will receive the title. The reason is
that the file is still not completely processed, and not all front matter fields are available.

> **Important**: In case you need to retrieve the whole front matter object, you can make use of the
> `postScript` property on your content type in combination with a [content script][01].

You can also ask additional input/questions during the placeholder script execution.
For instance, if you want to pick between a category upon content creation, you can use the
`PlaceholderScript.askQuestions` method.

```javascript
import { PlaceholderScript } from "@frontmatter/extensibility";

(async () => {
  const { answers } =
    PlaceholderScript.getArguments();

  if (!answers) {
    PlaceholderScript.askQuestions([
      {
        name: "category",
        message: "What category do you want to use for this article?"
      },
    ]);
    return;
  }

  const { category } = answers;

  if (!category) {
    PlaceholderScript.done(undefined);
    return;
  }

  PlaceholderScript.done(category);
})();
```

#### Placeholder usage

To use the `ogImage` placeholder, you need to define the `{{ogImage}}` value in your field as
follows:

```json
{
  "title": "Unique ID",
  "name": "uniqueId",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{uniqueId}}"
}
```

<!-- Link References -->

[01]: /docs/custom-actions/#content-script

Commit message:

Add options to placeholder question

content/docs/content-creation/placeholders.md, after:

---
title: Placeholders
slug: content-creation/placeholders
description: null
date: 2022-03-14T08:42:21.626Z
lastmod: 2024-01-31T16:32:05.190Z
weight: 200.4
---

# Placeholders

Placeholders can be used in content type fields or templates. The placeholders allow you to
automatically fill in values when creating a new content.

## Default placeholders

| Placeholder  | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `{{title}}`  | Title of the page                                                                                |
| `{{slug}}`   | Slug of the page                                                                                 |
| `{{now}}`    | Current date formatted with the value defined in `frontMatter.taxonomy.dateFormat` or ISO string |
| `{{year}}`   | Current year                                                                                     |
| `{{month}}`  | Current month                                                                                    |
| `{{day}}`    | Current day                                                                                      |
| `{{hour12}}` | Current hour in 12-hour format                                                                   |
| `{{hour24}}` | Current hour in 24-hour format                                                                   |
| `{{ampm}}`   | Show AM/PM                                                                                       |
| `{{minute}}` | Current minute                                                                                   |

## Special placeholders

| Placeholder             | Description                                                | Works for                                             |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `{{fm.<field name>}}`   | The value of the field in the front matter                 | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |
| `{{pathToken.<index>}}` | The value of the path token at the index                   | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |
| `{{pathToken.relPath}}` | The relative value path staring from the page folder' path | `previewPath` on the page folder or the content-type. |

### Example 1

Example of how you can use the special placeholders:

```json {{ "title": "Using the special placeholders", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "post",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "/{{fm.type}}/{{pathToken.3}}/{{pathToken.4}}",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content/{{year}}/{{month}}",
    "contentTypes": ["post"]
  }
]
```

The preview path will generate the following path: `/post/2023/02/<slug>`.

### Example 2

```json {{ "title": "Using the relative path token", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "post",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "/{{pathToken.relPath}}/",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content"
  }
]
```

If a file would exist in: `./content/docs/settings.md`. The preview path will generate the following
path: `/docs/settings/`.

### Example 3: using field formatting

In case of using the `{{fm.<field name>}}` placeholder, you can also use field formatting. Here is
an example of how you can use field formatting:

```json {{ "title": "Using field formatting", "description": "" }}
"frontMatter.content.pageFolders": [
  {
    "title": "blog",
    "filePrefix": null,
    "previewPath": "'/{{fm.type}}/{{fm.pubDate|format:dd/MM/yy}}/'",
    "path": "[[workspace]]/content"
  }
]
```

The above configuration results in the following path: `/blog/25/02/23/`.

![Placeholder field formatting](/releases/v9.0.0/placeholder-formatting.png)

## Custom placeholders

You can define you own placeholders within the `frontMatter.content.placeholders` setting. There are
two types of placeholders you can create:

- `static`: A static placeholder that will be replaced with a static value (you can use another
  placeholder in the value)
- `dynamic`: A dynamic placeholder that will use a script to generate the value

### Static placeholders

Here is an example of a static `permalink` placeholder:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "permalink",
    "value": "/blog/{{slug}}.html"
  }
]
```

> **Info**: The static placeholder's value is adding some text and it will also include the slug of
> the page. There is no extra logic that is executed to generate the value.

To use the `permalink` placeholder, you need to define the `{{permalink}}` value in your content
type or template.

```json
{
  "title": "Permalink",
  "name": "permalink",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{permalink}}"
}
```

### Dynamic placeholders

Dynamic placeholders allow you to use custom scripts to generate the value. The difference with the
static placeholder is that instead of specifying a value, you need to specify a `script` and
`command` property.

#### Placeholder definition

Here is an example of a dynamic `uniqueId` placeholder:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "uniqueId",
    "script": "./scripts/uniqueId.mjs",
    "command": "~/.nvm/versions/node/v18.17.1/bin/node"
  }
]
```

#### Placeholder script

To get started, you first need to install the
[@frontmatter/extensibility](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@frontmatter/extensibility) 
dependency.

```bash
npm i @frontmatter/extensibility
```

Once installed, you can use the following example:

```javascript
import { PlaceholderScript } from "@frontmatter/extensibility";

const { workspacePath, filePath, title, answers } = PlaceholderScript.getArguments();

PlaceholderScript.done(Math.random().toString(36).substring(2, 15));
```

> **Info**: Like the other content scripts, you can use other types of scripts like Python, Bash,
> and more.

The base script for a dynamic placeholder similar to the [content script][01]. The difference is
that instead of retrieving the whole front matter object, you will receive the title. The reason is
that the file is still not completely processed, and not all front matter fields are available.

> **Important**: In case you need to retrieve the whole front matter object, you can make use of the
> `postScript` property on your content type in combination with a [content script][01].

You can also ask additional input/questions during the placeholder script execution.
For instance, if you want to pick between a category upon content creation, you can use the
`PlaceholderScript.askQuestions` method.

```javascript
import { PlaceholderScript } from "@frontmatter/extensibility";

(async () => {
  const { answers } =
    PlaceholderScript.getArguments();

  if (!answers) {
    PlaceholderScript.askQuestions([
      {
        name: "category",
        message: "What category do you want to use for this article?",
        options: [
          "Uncategorized",
          "Getting Started",
          "Configuration",
          "Customization",
          "Deployment",
          "Troubleshooting",
          "Other",
        ],
      },
    ]);
    return;
  }

  const { category } = answers;

  if (!category) {
    PlaceholderScript.done(undefined);
    return;
  }

  PlaceholderScript.done(category);
})();
```

#### Placeholder usage

To use the `ogImage` placeholder, you need to define the `{{ogImage}}` value in your field as
follows:

```json
{
  "title": "Unique ID",
  "name": "uniqueId",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{uniqueId}}"
}
```

<!-- Link References -->

[01]: /docs/custom-actions/#content-script
