content/docs/content-types.md, before:

---
title: Content creation
slug: content-types
description: null
date: '2021-09-17T07:36:26.654Z'
lastmod: '2022-02-10T18:27:52.214Z'
weight: 3
---

# Content creation

## Overview

As each website is different, Front Matter allows you to create content by using content types or templates. 

When using content types or templates, Front Matter adapts the metadata fields shown in the editor panel to the corresponding fields in your content type or template.

Front Matter comes with a default content type and template definition which you can adapt to your needs or add your types next to it.

## Before you start

Front Matter supports both `md` and `mdx` files. If you use the templating functionality, the CMS will automatically use the file extension of the template.

When using content types, the CMS will create the new content based on the following rules:

1. The extension checks if the content type has the `fileType` property defined. If set, the CMS uses the file type set in the property.
2. If the content type has no `fileType` property defined, the CMS uses the default file type defined in the `frontMatter.content.defaultFileType` setting. By default, the CMS uses `md`. If you want to use `mdx`, you need to set the `frontMatter.content.defaultFileType` setting to `mdx`.

## How it works

Behind the scenes, Front Matter uses the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting to understand which type of content you'll use for your website.

Our default content type consists of the following fields:

- title: `string`
- description: `string`
- date: `datetime`
- preview: `image`
- draft: `draft`
- tags: `tags`
- categories: `categories`

> **Info**: The default content type will create an individual Markdown file when creating content. If you want to use page bundles, make sure to specify this on the content type level.

We'll use the default one when you start writing your markdown content, and no other content type is defined.

![Default content type fields](/assets/default-contenttype.png)

## Changing the default content type

If you want to change the default content type, open your `frontmatter.json` and write an entry for the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting. Visual Studio Code will automatically autocomplete it with the default content type fields.

If in some case it wouldn't do this, here is the default content type structure:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": null,
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      {
        "title": "Title",
        "name": "title",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Description",
        "name": "description",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Publishing date",
        "name": "date",
        "type": "datetime",
        "default": "{{now}}"
      },
      {
        "title": "Article preview",
        "name": "preview",
        "type": "image"
      },
      {
        "title": "Is in draft",
        "name": "draft",
        "type": "draft"
      },
      {
        "title": "Tags",
        "name": "tags",
        "type": "tags"
      },
      {
        "title": "Categories",
        "name": "categories",
        "type": "categories"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

Adapt the fields to your needs. For our documentation it looks as follows:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": null,
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      {
        "title": "Title",
        "name": "title",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Description",
        "name": "description",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Publishing date",
        "name": "date",
        "type": "datetime",
        "default": "{{now}}"
      },
      {
        "title": "Last modified date",
        "name": "lastmod",
        "type": "datetime"
      },
      {
        "title": "Navigation weight",
        "name": "weight",
        "type": "number"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

The metadata section on the editor panel will render the following fields:

![Adapted default content type fields](/assets/adapted-default-ct.png)

### Content type properties

For the content type you can configure the following properties:

- `name (string)`: Name of the content type
- `fields (Field[])`: Check the [supported field types](/docs/content-types#supported-field-types)
- `fileType (enum: 'md' | 'mdx' | 'markdown' | '<your choice>')`: File type of for the content type you define. The type will be used to create the file when creating content.
- `pageBundle (boolean)`: Specify if for the content a folder will be created. Default: `false`.
- `previewPath (string)`: Defines a custom preview path for the content type. Default: `null`. When the preview path is not set, the value from the [frontMatter.preview.pathName](https://frontmatter.codes/docs/settings#frontmatter.preview.pathname) setting will be used.

## Define your own type

In most cases, you'll work with multiple types of content where each type will have its defined set of fields. If this is the case for your website, you'll need to add another content type to the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting.

Instead of overriding the default content type, you can also define a new content type. It requires you to specify the `name` and `fields`.

> **Important**: The `name` property value needs to be equal to the `type` value you set in your Markdown front matter. You best define it via a template so that it's always defined. A default template will be available when initializing Front Matter in your project in the `.frontmatter/templates` folder.

Sample:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  },
  {
    "name": "documentation",
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

In the sample, `documentation` is used as the content type name. This means that in your article, you'll need to add the `type: documentation` to your front matter to let the editor panel understand which fields to show.

```markdown
---
title: Content Types
slug: content-types
description: null
date: '2021-09-17T07:36:26.654Z'
lastmod: '2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z'
weight: 4
type: documentation
---
```

## Supported field types

Front Matter its metadata section supports the following fields:

- `string`
- `number`
- `datetime`
- `boolean`
- `image`
- `choice`
- `draft`: specifies the kind of draft field you want to use: `boolean` or `choice`. This field, can be configured with the [frontmatter.content.draftfield](/docs/settings#frontmatter.content.draftfield) setting.
- `tags`: mapped to the tags defined in your settings.
- `categories`: mapped to the categories defined in your settings.
- `taxonomy`: if you want to define your own custom taxonomy fields.
- `fields`: allows you to define another object and its fields.

### Custom draft field

By default, the draft field is a boolean field. If you want to use your own status values, you can configure it via the [frontmatter.content.draftfield](/docs/settings#frontmatter.content.draftfield) setting.

Sample of custom draft field with:

```json
"frontMatter.content.draftField": {
  "name": "draft",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": ["draft", "in progress", "published"]
}
```

When using a custom draft status, the content dashboard will make use of it as well:

![Draft filters](/releases/v5.3.0/draft-status.png)

### Field properties

A field consists out of the following properties:

- `title (string)`: The title to show in the metadata section (optional);
- `name (string)`: The name of your field, will be used to set in the front matter of your Markdown file;
- `type (field type - string)`: One of the above supported types.
- `default`: Defines the default value for the field when creating the content type. You can also use placeholders like `{{title}}`, `{{slug}}` or `{{now}}`. Check for more information under [placeholders](/docs/content-types#placeholders).
- `hidden (boolean - optional)`: Specifies if you want to hide the field from the metadata section, but still have it available in Front Matter.

### Placeholders

Placeholders can be used in content type fields or templates. The placeholders allow you to automatically fill in values when creating a new content.

There are known placeholders from Front Matter:

- `{{title}}`
- `{{slug}}`
- `{{now}}`

You can define you own placeholders within the `frontMatter.content.placeholders` setting.

For instance, you can define a custom `permalink` placeholder as follows:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "permalink",
    "value": "/blog/{{slug}}.html"
  }
]
```

To use the `permalink` placeholder, you need to define the `{{permalink}}` value in your content type or template.

```json
{
  "title": "Permalink",
  "name": "permalink",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{permalink}}"
}
```

> In the custom placeholders, you can also use the known placeholders from Front Matter, so that they are more dynamic to your content.

#### Additional properties

##### String fields

- `single (boolean)`: When you picked the `string` field type, you can specify if it is a single line. By default it will render as a multiline field (optional).

##### Image fields

- `isPreviewImage (boolean)`: Allows you to specify a custom preview image for your article. When you set this to `true` for an image field in your content type, it will be adopted in the dashboard.
- `multiple (boolean)`: Define if you want to allow to select multiple images. By default this is `false`.

> **Important**: You can only set this on one image field per content type.

##### Choice fields

- `choices (string[] | { id: string; title: string; })`: When you picked the `choice` field type, you need to return an array of choices.
- `multiple (boolean)`: Define if you want to allow multiple choice selection. By default this is `false`.

Example of using an array of string values:

```json
{
  "title": "Choice",
  "name": "choice",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": [
    "",
    "Choice 1",
    "Choice 2",
    "Choice 3"
  ]
}
```

Example of using an array of { id: string; title: string; } objects:

```json
{
  "title": "Choice",
  "name": "choice",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": [
    { "id": "1", "title": "Choice 1" },
    { "id": "2", "title": "Choice 2" },
    { "id": "3", "title": "Choice 3" }
  ]
}
```

##### Custom taxonomy field

- `taxonomyId`: The id of the taxonomy you want to use, it will need to be defined in the `frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy` setting.

Example of a custom taxonomy field definition:

```json
{
  "title": "Custom taxonomy",
  "name": "customTags",
  "type": "taxonomy",
  "taxonomyId": "customTaxonomy"
}
```

The `frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy` setting allows you to provide a list of custom taxonomy data. Each of the taxonomy data contains a `id` and an array of `options`.

Here is an example of the custom taxonomy setting definition:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy": [
  {
    "id": "customTaxonomy",
    "options": [
      "Option 1",
      "Option 2",
      "Option 3"
    ]
  }
]
```

##### Sub-fields / objects

If you want to create multi-dimensional content type fields (sub-fields), you can use specify the field type as `fields` and define sub-fields within the `fields` property.

Example:

```json
{
  "frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
    {
      "name": "multi-dimensional",
      "pageBundle": false,
      "fields": [
        ...
        {
          "title": "Photo",
          "type": "fields",
          "name": "photo",
          "fields": [
            {
              "title": "Title",
              "name": "title",
              "type": "string"
            },
            {
              "title": "URL",
              "name": "url",
              "type": "image"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This will render the following output:

![Multi-dimensional content type fields](/releases/v6.0.0/multi-dimensional-content-type-fields.png)

## Preview path

When you want to show the live site/page previews in Visual Studio Code, you can specify a custom preview path/prefix. For instance, if you create blog articles, and you want to prefix it with `blog/2021/11`, you can set this with the `previewPath` property.

There are two ways to set this:

1. Via the global [frontMatter.preview.pathName](https://frontmatter.codes/docs/settings#frontmatter.preview.pathname) setting. This will be used as the default value for all content types.
2. Define a path per content type can be done via the `previewPath` property. Once set, it will ignore the `frontMatter.preview.pathName` setting.

> **Important**: As the value will be formatted with the article's date, it will try to convert all characters you enter. In case you wan to skip some characters or all of them, you need to wrap that part between **two single quotes**. Example: `"'blog/'yyyy/MM"` will result in: `blog/2021/11`.

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": "'blog/'yyyy/MM",
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

## Page and leaf bundles

The page or leaf bundles, are a way to group your pages and resources together in a single folder.

```
content/
├── about
│   ├── index.md
├── posts
│   ├── leaf-bundle
│   │   ├── image1.jpg
│   │   ├── image2.png
│   │   └── index.md
│   └── leaf-bundle
│       └── index.md
│
└── another-section
    ├── ..
    └── leaf-bundle
        └── index.md
```

In the above section you can see the `leaf-bundle` folders. These bundles consist of a `index.md` file and possibly also the resouces related to it like images.

By default, Front Matter will create individual Markdown files, but you can also create a leaf bundle. In order to do so, you need to set the `pageBundle` property in your content type to `true`.

Here is an example of configuring the page bundles for the `default` content type:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "pageBundle": true,
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

## Creating a template

To make sure that your type of content is already defined when creating a new Markdown file. It will be easier to set the type of content within a template.

You can create Markdown templates in your project's `.frontmatter/templates` folder (or defined differently).

```markdown
---
title: 
slug: 
description: 
date: 2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z
lastmod: 2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z
weight: 1
type: documentation
---
```

If you already have an existing page, you can automatically create a template from it by running the `Front Matter: Create a template from the current file` command.

The create template command will ask you the template's name and if you want to include the content. The front matter data is included by default.

Commit message:

Documentation updates for upcoming 6.1.0 release

content/docs/content-types.md, after:

---
title: Content creation
slug: content-types
description: null
date: 2021-09-17T07:36:26.654Z
lastmod: 2022-02-25T14:06:32.318Z
weight: 3
tags:
  - documentation
---

# Content creation

## Overview

As each website is different, Front Matter allows you to create content by using content types or templates. 

When using content types or templates, Front Matter adapts the metadata fields shown in the editor panel to the corresponding fields in your content type or template.

Front Matter comes with a default content type and template definition which you can adapt to your needs or add your types next to it.

## Before you start

Front Matter supports both `md` and `mdx` files. If you use the templating functionality, the CMS will automatically use the file extension of the template.

When using content types, the CMS will create the new content based on the following rules:

1. The extension checks if the content type has the `fileType` property defined. If set, the CMS uses the file type set in the property.
2. If the content type has no `fileType` property defined, the CMS uses the default file type defined in the `frontMatter.content.defaultFileType` setting. By default, the CMS uses `md`. If you want to use `mdx`, you need to set the `frontMatter.content.defaultFileType` setting to `mdx`.

## How it works

Behind the scenes, Front Matter uses the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting to understand which type of content you'll use for your website.

Our default content type consists of the following fields:

- title: `string`
- description: `string`
- date: `datetime`
- preview: `image`
- draft: `draft`
- tags: `tags`
- categories: `categories`

> **Info**: The default content type will create an individual Markdown file when creating content. If you want to use page bundles, make sure to specify this on the content type level.

We'll use the default one when you start writing your markdown content, and no other content type is defined.

![Default content type fields](/assets/default-contenttype.png)

## Changing the default content type

If you want to change the default content type, open your `frontmatter.json` and write an entry for the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting. Visual Studio Code will automatically autocomplete it with the default content type fields.

If in some case it wouldn't do this, here is the default content type structure:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": null,
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      {
        "title": "Title",
        "name": "title",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Description",
        "name": "description",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Publishing date",
        "name": "date",
        "type": "datetime",
        "default": "{{now}}"
      },
      {
        "title": "Article preview",
        "name": "preview",
        "type": "image"
      },
      {
        "title": "Is in draft",
        "name": "draft",
        "type": "draft"
      },
      {
        "title": "Tags",
        "name": "tags",
        "type": "tags"
      },
      {
        "title": "Categories",
        "name": "categories",
        "type": "categories"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

Adapt the fields to your needs. For our documentation it looks as follows:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": null,
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      {
        "title": "Title",
        "name": "title",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Description",
        "name": "description",
        "type": "string"
      },
      {
        "title": "Publishing date",
        "name": "date",
        "type": "datetime",
        "default": "{{now}}"
      },
      {
        "title": "Last modified date",
        "name": "lastmod",
        "type": "datetime"
      },
      {
        "title": "Navigation weight",
        "name": "weight",
        "type": "number"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

The metadata section on the editor panel will render the following fields:

![Adapted default content type fields](/assets/adapted-default-ct.png)

### Content type properties

For the content type you can configure the following properties:

- `name (string)`: Name of the content type
- `fields (Field[])`: Check the [supported field types](/docs/content-types#supported-field-types)
- `fileType (enum: 'md' | 'mdx' | 'markdown' | '<your choice>')`: File type of for the content type you define. The type will be used to create the file when creating content.
- `pageBundle (boolean)`: Specify if for the content a folder will be created. Default: `false`.
- `previewPath (string)`: Defines a custom preview path for the content type. Default: `null`. When the preview path is not set, the value from the [frontMatter.preview.pathName](https://frontmatter.codes/docs/settings#frontmatter.preview.pathname) setting will be used.

## Define your own type

In most cases, you'll work with multiple types of content where each type will have its defined set of fields. If this is the case for your website, you'll need to add another content type to the `frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes` setting.

Instead of overriding the default content type, you can also define a new content type. It requires you to specify the `name` and `fields`.

> **Important**: The `name` property value needs to be equal to the `type` value you set in your Markdown front matter. You best define it via a template so that it's always defined. A default template will be available when initializing Front Matter in your project in the `.frontmatter/templates` folder.

Sample:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  },
  {
    "name": "documentation",
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

In the sample, `documentation` is used as the content type name. This means that in your article, you'll need to add the `type: documentation` to your front matter to let the editor panel understand which fields to show.

```markdown
---
title: Content Types
slug: content-types
description: null
date: '2021-09-17T07:36:26.654Z'
lastmod: '2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z'
weight: 4
type: documentation
---
```

## Supported field types

Front Matter its metadata section supports the following fields:

- `string`
- `number`
- `datetime`
- `boolean`
- `image`
- `choice`
- `draft`: specifies the kind of draft field you want to use: `boolean` or `choice`. This field, can be configured with the [frontmatter.content.draftfield](/docs/settings#frontmatter.content.draftfield) setting.
- `tags`: mapped to the tags defined in your settings.
- `categories`: mapped to the categories defined in your settings.
- `taxonomy`: if you want to define your own custom taxonomy fields.
- `fields`: allows you to define another object and its fields.

### Custom draft field

By default, the draft field is a boolean field. If you want to use your own status values, you can configure it via the [frontmatter.content.draftfield](/docs/settings#frontmatter.content.draftfield) setting.

Sample of custom draft field with:

```json
"frontMatter.content.draftField": {
  "name": "draft",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": ["draft", "in progress", "published"]
}
```

When using a custom draft status, the content dashboard will make use of it as well:

![Draft filters](/releases/v5.3.0/draft-status.png)

### Field properties

A field consists out of the following properties:

- `title (string)`: The title to show in the metadata section (optional);
- `name (string)`: The name of your field, will be used to set in the front matter of your Markdown file;
- `type (field type - string)`: One of the above supported types.
- `default`: Defines the default value for the field when creating the content type. You can also use placeholders like `{{title}}`, `{{slug}}` or `{{now}}`. Check for more information under [placeholders](/docs/content-types#placeholders).
- `hidden (boolean - optional)`: Specifies if you want to hide the field from the metadata section, but still have it available in Front Matter.
- `taxonomyLimit (number - optional)`: Specifies the maximum number of items that can be selected for this field. If set to `0` it will allow unlimited items.

### Placeholders

Placeholders can be used in content type fields or templates. The placeholders allow you to automatically fill in values when creating a new content.

There are known placeholders from Front Matter:

- `{{title}}`
- `{{slug}}`
- `{{now}}`

You can define you own placeholders within the `frontMatter.content.placeholders` setting.

For instance, you can define a custom `permalink` placeholder as follows:

```json
"frontMatter.content.placeholders": [
  {
    "id": "permalink",
    "value": "/blog/{{slug}}.html"
  }
]
```

To use the `permalink` placeholder, you need to define the `{{permalink}}` value in your content type or template.

```json
{
  "title": "Permalink",
  "name": "permalink",
  "type": "string",
  "default": "{{permalink}}"
}
```

> In the custom placeholders, you can also use the known placeholders from Front Matter, so that they are more dynamic to your content.

#### Additional properties

##### String fields

- `single (boolean)`: When you picked the `string` field type, you can specify if it is a single line. By default it will render as a multiline field (optional).

##### Image fields

- `isPreviewImage (boolean)`: Allows you to specify a custom preview image for your article. When you set this to `true` for an image field in your content type, it will be adopted in the dashboard.
- `multiple (boolean)`: Define if you want to allow to select multiple images. By default this is `false`.

> **Important**: You can only set this on one image field per content type.

##### Choice fields

- `choices (string[] | { id: string; title: string; })`: When you picked the `choice` field type, you need to return an array of choices.
- `multiple (boolean)`: Define if you want to allow multiple choice selection. By default this is `false`.

Example of using an array of string values:

```json
{
  "title": "Choice",
  "name": "choice",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": [
    "",
    "Choice 1",
    "Choice 2",
    "Choice 3"
  ]
}
```

Example of using an array of { id: string; title: string; } objects:

```json
{
  "title": "Choice",
  "name": "choice",
  "type": "choice",
  "choices": [
    { "id": "1", "title": "Choice 1" },
    { "id": "2", "title": "Choice 2" },
    { "id": "3", "title": "Choice 3" }
  ]
}
```

##### Tags and categories

The `tags` and `categories` fields are mapped to the tags and categories defined in your settings (by default, none existing). When adding a tag/category that does not exist in your settings, you will have to option to create it:

![Add a new tag](/assets/tag-creation.png)

With the `taxonomyLimit` property on the field, you can limit the number of items that can be selected. By default set to `0` which allows unlimited items to be selected.

When a limit is defined, this will get reflected in the UI as well:

![Taxonomy limit](/assets/tags-limit.png)

##### Custom taxonomy field

- `taxonomyId`: The id of the taxonomy you want to use, it will need to be defined in the `frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy` setting.

Example of a custom taxonomy field definition:

```json
{
  "title": "Custom taxonomy",
  "name": "customTags",
  "type": "taxonomy",
  "taxonomyId": "customTaxonomy"
}
```

The `frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy` setting allows you to provide a list of custom taxonomy data. Each of the taxonomy data contains a `id` and an array of `options`.

Here is an example of the custom taxonomy setting definition:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.customTaxonomy": [
  {
    "id": "customTaxonomy",
    "options": [
      "Option 1",
      "Option 2",
      "Option 3"
    ]
  }
]
```

Similar to the `tags` and `categories` fields, you can also use the `taxonomyLimit` property to limit the number of items that can be selected.

##### Sub-fields / objects

If you want to create multi-dimensional content type fields (sub-fields), you can use specify the field type as `fields` and define sub-fields within the `fields` property.

Example:

```json
{
  "frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
    {
      "name": "multi-dimensional",
      "pageBundle": false,
      "fields": [
        ...
        {
          "title": "Photo",
          "type": "fields",
          "name": "photo",
          "fields": [
            {
              "title": "Title",
              "name": "title",
              "type": "string"
            },
            {
              "title": "URL",
              "name": "url",
              "type": "image"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This will render the following output:

![Multi-dimensional content type fields](/releases/v6.0.0/multi-dimensional-content-type-fields.png)

## Preview path

When you want to show the live site/page previews in Visual Studio Code, you can specify a custom preview path/prefix. For instance, if you create blog articles, and you want to prefix it with `blog/2021/11`, you can set this with the `previewPath` property.

There are two ways to set this:

1. Via the global [frontMatter.preview.pathName](https://frontmatter.codes/docs/settings#frontmatter.preview.pathname) setting. This will be used as the default value for all content types.
2. Define a path per content type can be done via the `previewPath` property. Once set, it will ignore the `frontMatter.preview.pathName` setting.

> **Important**: As the value will be formatted with the article's date, it will try to convert all characters you enter. In case you wan to skip some characters or all of them, you need to wrap that part between **two single quotes**. Example: `"'blog/'yyyy/MM"` will result in: `blog/2021/11`.

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "previewPath": "'blog/'yyyy/MM",
    "pageBundle": false,
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

## Page and leaf bundles

The page or leaf bundles, are a way to group your pages and resources together in a single folder.

```
content/
├── about
│   ├── index.md
├── posts
│   ├── leaf-bundle
│   │   ├── image1.jpg
│   │   ├── image2.png
│   │   └── index.md
│   └── leaf-bundle
│       └── index.md
│
└── another-section
    ├── ..
    └── leaf-bundle
        └── index.md
```

In the above section you can see the `leaf-bundle` folders. These bundles consist of a `index.md` file and possibly also the resouces related to it like images.

By default, Front Matter will create individual Markdown files, but you can also create a leaf bundle. In order to do so, you need to set the `pageBundle` property in your content type to `true`.

Here is an example of configuring the page bundles for the `default` content type:

```json
"frontMatter.taxonomy.contentTypes": [
  {
    "name": "default",
    "pageBundle": true,
    "fields": [
      ...
    ]
  }
]
```

## Creating a template

To make sure that your type of content is already defined when creating a new Markdown file. It will be easier to set the type of content within a template.

You can create Markdown templates in your project's `.frontmatter/templates` folder (or defined differently).

```markdown
---
title: 
slug: 
description: 
date: 2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z
lastmod: 2019-08-22T15:20:28.000Z
weight: 1
type: documentation
---
```

If you already have an existing page, you can automatically create a template from it by running the `Front Matter: Create a template from the current file` command.

The create template command will ask you the template's name and if you want to include the content. The front matter data is included by default.

## Preserve the casing for your file names

When you create a new page, the file name will be created based on the sanitized `title` property. During the sanitization, the `title` property will be converted to lowercase and all spaces will be replaced with dashes.

If you want to preserve the casing of the file name, you can set the `frontMatter.file.preserveCasing` setting to `true`.

```json
{
  "frontMatter.file.preserveCasing": true
}
