content/docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
slug: ''
description: Create, edit, and preview your pages within Visual Studio Code. Front Matter allows you to keep control of your static site without any external tools.
date: '2021-08-30T16:13:00.546Z'
lastmod: '2021-08-30T16:13:01.763Z'
weight: 1
---

# Introduction

## Overview

Front Matter is an essential Visual Studio Code extension that simplifies working and managing your markdown articles. We created the extension to support many static-site generators like Hugo, Jekyll, Hexo, NextJs, Gatsby, and more.

The extension brings Content Management System (CMS) capabilities straight within Visual Studio Code. For example, you can keep a list of the used tags, categories, create content, and so much more.

![Welcome screen](/assets/welcome-progress.png)

Our main extension features are:

- Page dashboard where you can get an overview of all your markdown pages. You can use it to search, filter, sort your contents.
- Site preview within Visual Studio Code
- SEO checks for title, description, and keywords
- Support for custom actions/scripts
- and many more

![Site preview](https://res.cloudinary.com/estruyf/image/upload/w_1256/v1631871148/frontmatter/preview-3.2.0.png)

## Why Front Matter?

Initially, the Front Matter extension was created when [Elio Struyf](https://twitter.com/eliostruyf) migrated from WordPress to Hugo (Static Site Generator). To make content management more straightforward, he started to develop the Front Matter extension. He added more features regularly, and eventually, it became a headless CMS that runs within Visual Studio Code.

## Advantages

We believe that Front Matter gives you the following advantages:

### Speed

It just runs on your machine. There are no servers/websites/APIs involved in the process. Nothing can beat this.

### Use it within Visual Studio Code

You do not need to jump from tool to tool. Just use the one that you like the most, which is, of course, Visual Studio Code.

### Customizable

Almost all of the Front Matter features are customizable by the extension of its settings. These settings make sure that you can tweak it to your needs.

### Extensibility

We know that not every site is the same. That is why we allow you to add your custom scripts. These scripts will show up as actions in our panel and could take your content management to the next level. 

> **Example**: [Generate open graph preview image in Code with Front Matter](https://www.eliostruyf.com/generate-open-graph-preview-image-code-front-matter/)

Commit message:

Have used some Advanced terminology

content/docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
slug: ''
description: Create, edit, and preview your pages within Visual Studio Code. Front Matter allows you to keep control of your static site without any external tools.
date: '2021-08-30T16:13:00.546Z'
lastmod: '2021-08-30T16:13:01.763Z'
weight: 1
---

# Introduction

## Overview

Front Matter is an integral Visual Studio Code extension that simplifies operating and managing your markdown articles. we have created the extension to support several static-site generators and frameworks parallel to Hugo, Jekyll, Hexo, NextJs, Gatsby, and more which provides you the power and control of a full-blown Content Management System (CMS)

The extension brings CMS capabilities straight among Visual Studio Code. For example, you can keep a list of the used tags, categories, create content, and so much more.

![Welcome screen](/assets/welcome-progress.png)

Our main extension features are:

-Page dashboard in which you can get an overview of all of your markdown pages. You can use it to search, filter, type your contents.
- Site preview within Visual Studio Code
- SEO checks for title, description, and keywords
- Support for custom actions/scripts
- and many more

![Site preview](https://res.cloudinary.com/estruyf/image/upload/w_1256/v1631871148/frontmatter/preview-3.2.0.png)

## Why Front Matter?

Initially, the Front Matter extension was created when [Elio Struyf](https://twitter.com/eliostruyf) migrated from WordPress to Hugo (Static web site Generator). to create content management more straightforward, he began to develop the Front Matter extension and  superimposed more options regularly, and eventually, it became a headless CMS that runs among Visual Studio Code.

## Advantages

We believe that Front Matter gives you the subsequent advantages:

### Speed

It simply runs on your machine. There are no servers/websites/APIs involved in the process. Nothing can beat this.

### Use it within Visual Studio Code

You do not ought to jump from tool to tool. simply use the one that you simply just like the most, that is, of course, Visual Studio Code.

### Customizable

Almost all of the Front Matter features are customizable by the extension of its settings. These settings ensure that you just will tweak it to your needs.

### Extensibility

We recognize that now no longer each website is the same. That is why we permit you to upload your custom scripts. These scripts will display up as actions in our panel and will take your content material control to the next level. 

> **Example**: [Generate open graph preview image in Code with Front Matter](https://www.eliostruyf.com/generate-open-graph-preview-image-code-front-matter/)
